## Prepare data

### Genome
When you need run `ANANSE` in your sample, genome file is necessary. We recommand you download your genome file with [genomepy](https://github.com/vanheeringen-lab/genomepy), which is a python package could install genome easily.

In ANANSE, for each genome, we need:

* A genome fasta file
* A 12 columns BED file with genome annotation. 

When you would like to insall the genome with `genomepy`, you could fellow this commands, which will download both `fasta` file and `bed` file.

```
conda create -n genomepy python=3
conda activate genomepy
conda install genomepy=0.7.2

conda activate genompy

# install hg38 genome
genomepy install GRCh38 NCBI -a
```

### Motif database
By default ANANSE uses a non-redundant, clustered database of known vertebrate motifs: `gimme.vertebrate.v5.0`. These motifs come from CIS-BP (http://cisbp.ccbr.utoronto.ca/) and other sources. Large-scale benchmarks using ChIP-seq peaks show that this database shows good performance and should be a good default choice. 

!!! warning
    Using absolute paths with links is not officially supported. Relative paths
    are adjusted by MkDocs to ensure they are always relative to the page. Absolute
    paths are not modified at all. This means that your links using absolute paths
    might work fine in your local environment but they might break once you deploy
    them to your production server.


!!! note

    MkDocs does not support YAML style deliminators (`---` or `...`) for
    MultiMarkdown style meta-data. In fact, MkDocs relies on the the presence or
    absence of the deliminators to determine whether YAML style meta-data or
    MultiMarkdown style meta-data is being used. If the deliminators are
    detected, but the content between the deliminators is not valid YAML
    meta-data, MkDocs does not attempt to parse the content as MultiMarkdown
    style meta-data.

If you would like to use your own motif database, please makesure your database include following two files:  

* Motif file

```
#GM.5.0.Sox.0001	M1911_1.02;;M3916_1.02;;M5846_1.02;;M6471_1.02;;M6478_1.02;;MA0084.1_SRY;;MA1152.1_SOX15;;SOX12;;SOX12_1 Sox12_bulyk_sc09-primary;;SOX15_1 Sox15_bulyk_sc09-primary;;SOX18_1 Sox18_bulyk_sc09-primary;;SOX30;;SOX30_1 Sox30_bulyk_sc09-primary;;SOX7_1 Sox7_bulyk_sc09-primary;;SOX9_1 SOX9_transfac_M00410;;SOX9_3 SOX9_jolma_DBD_M136;;SRY;;SRY_3 SRY_jaspar_MA0084.1
>GM.5.0.Sox.0001
0.7213	0.0793	0.1103	0.0891
0.9259	0.0072	0.0062	0.0607
0.0048	0.9203	0.0077	0.0672
0.9859	0.0030	0.0030	0.0081
0.9778	0.0043	0.0128	0.0051
0.1484	0.0050	0.0168	0.8299
#GM.5.0.Homeodomain.0001	M4064_1.02;;TGIF1;;TGIF1_1 TGIF_transfac_M00418;;TGIF1_HUMAN.H11MO.0.A
>GM.5.0.Homeodomain.0001
0.8870	0.0000	0.0178	0.0951
0.1156	0.2033	0.6629	0.0181
0.0017	0.7452	0.0809	0.1722
0.0011	0.0003	0.0003	0.9983
0.0026	0.0141	0.9721	0.0111
0.0000	0.0189	0.0054	0.9758
0.0006	0.9983	0.0006	0.0006
0.9170	0.0140	0.0046	0.0644
0.2228	0.2421	0.3300	0.2051
0.3621	0.1054	0.2208	0.3116
0.5727	0.0104	0.1741	0.2428
```

* Motif2factors file  

```
Motif	Factor	Evidence	Curated
GM.5.0.Sox.0001	SRY	JASPAR	Y
GM.5.0.Sox.0001	SOX9	Transfac	Y
GM.5.0.Sox.0001	Sox9	Transfac	N
GM.5.0.Sox.0001	SOX9	SELEX	Y
GM.5.0.Sox.0001	Sox9	SELEX	N
```

The `motif` file should end with `.pfm`,  and `motif2factors` file should have the same name with `motif` file and end with `motif2factors.txt`.
The defaule `gimme.vertebrate.v5.0` file can be found here: [gimme.vertebrate.v5.0.pfm](https://github.com/vanheeringen-lab/gimmemotifs/blob/master/data/motif_databases/gimme.vertebrate.v5.0.pfm) and [gimme.vertebrate.v5.0.motif2factors.txt](https://github.com/vanheeringen-lab/gimmemotifs/blob/master/data/motif_databases/gimme.vertebrate.v5.0.motif2factors.txt).

### Enhancer data
The EP300 ChIP-seq or ATAC-seq peaks were used to define putative enhancer regions for specific cell types. The summits of the MACS2 peaks were chosen first, then extended (+/- 100bp) to a total size of 200bp. The EP300 or H3K27ac ChIP-seq peak intensity generated by MACS2 (bedGraph file) was used to represent enhancer intensity. bedGraphToBigWig tool (Kent, 2014) was used to switch bedGraph files to bigWig files. The intensity of enhancer peak was calculated by bigWigSummary tool (Kent, 2014), which selected the highest signal of EP300 (200 bp around the peak summit) or H3K27ac (2,000 bp around the peak summit) ChIP-seq peak.
### Expression data

### Differential expression data

